
# Component types

The design intention of `Ard` is to offer a principled, modular, extensible wind farm layout optimization tool.

In order to balance focus with the modularity and extensibility intended for the code, we will classify different types of components, and build "base `Ard`" with a set of default components.
Each type of component will be defined below, and each type of component will have a template parent class which can be used to derive custom user-defined components to serve as drop in replacements in `Ard`.

## Layout DV Components (`layout`)

Wind farm layout optimization is a significantly challenging problem for global optimization, due to the existence of many local minima.
One strategy for reducing the dimensionality of the design space is the use of layout models.
`layout` components are for connecting some reduced layout variables to (`x_turbines`, `y_turbines`) variables that explicitly describe the layout of a farm for computing the farm aerodynamics.

The default `layout` component is the grid farm layout defined in `ard/layout/gridfarm.py`, which parameterizes a structured parallelogram-shaped farm in terms of a primary axis, aligned with respect to North by an orientation angle coincident with compass rose angles, with rows spaced along this axis by a constant spacing measured in rotor diameters; and a secondary axis, skewed from orthagonal by a skew angle in the direction of compass angles, with rows spaced along this axis by a constant spacing.
This results in four parameters, two nondimensional spacing values and two angles.

**tl;dr:** `layout` components map from a simplified parameter set to Cartesian farm coordinates

## Farm Aero Components (`farm_aero`)

Fundamentally, `farm_aero` components will take in a set of farm layout design variables, in terms of `x_turbines` and `y_turbines` components of turbine locations, and potentially with some control command input, namely `yaw_turbines`.

In addition to these design variables, the turbine definitions to be used and some (possibly comprehensive) set of wind conditions to be queried will also be provided to a given `farm_aero` component.

The result of a `farm_aero` component will be a power or energy production quantity of interest.
Typically, these will be a power output estimate for the set of provided conditions or annual energy production estimate for the farm given the wind resource.

The default `farm_aero` component is [NREL's FLORIS tool](https://nrel.github.io/floris), which can be found at `ard/farm_aero/floris.py`.
We wrap FLORIS to map from `x_turbines`, `y_turbines`, and `yaw_turbines` to turbine powers, turbine thrusts, farm power, and, optionally, farm AEP.

**tl;dr:** `farm_aero` components map from a farm layouts and possibly control settings to some measure of farm power production

## Collection Components (`collection`)

`collection` components are model the systems that handle the "collection" of energy generated by wind turbines.
Namely, this consists of power management systems that move energy from wind turbine generators to substations where energy can be efficiently converted to appropriate forms for long-distance transmission.

`collection` components will take in farm layout, turbine specifications, and substation location(s), and output a set of cable edge lengths, required capacities, and other information about the cable paths.

**tl;dr:** `collection` components map farm specifications to the necessary energy management systems

## Economics and Finance Components (`cost`)

The `cost` components are less formally structured than the components above, but generally take inputs that are consumable stocks or marketable products of a wind system.
Meanwhile, they give as outputs some measure of the monetary trade value that the wind system can create.
Complete details are provided in the components in the `ard/cost` folder.

The default `cost` component set are the WISDEM tools given in `ard/cost/windse_wrap.py`, which include WISDEM's `LandBOSSE` module for BOS calculation and WISDEM's `PlantFinance` module for computation of LCOE.

**tl;dr:** `cost` components map from machines and their production of energy to money inputs and outputs


<!-- FIN! -->
